hi friends
In this video we are going to discuss about single
pointers
So what is a pointer? A pointer is basically a
variable but it stores the address of other variables
And if a pointer is storing the address of an
integer variable, we can call it an integer
Pointer
Similarly if it is storing the address of a character
variable, we can call it a character pointer
Now consider the C code.
First we have an integer variable declaration for a and
is initialised to 10
So what really happens in the background? Computer allocates four
bytes of memory for a and value 10 is stored in it
and suppose the base address of this block is 1024
Next we have int * ptr
Which means ptr is an integer Pointer
The * symbol is used for pointers
So ptr can store the address of an
integer variable and we are assigning the value
&a that is address of a which is 1024
So ptr will store 1024 and refers to a
Now as we know ptr is actually a variable
And suppose it is created at address 1000 so we
can get this address using
&ptr
Now we have some print statements
First of all we're printing value of a equal to
and prints the value of a which is 10
Next we're printing value stored at ptr equal to
and prints the value of *ptr
So what is this *ptr?
So we have already learnt &variable which will
give the address of a variable, just like that
If we write * followed by some address it will
give the value at that address
Here we have *ptr and we have
ptr=1024
So *ptr= *1024
So it will give the value stored at address 1024
and we will get 10 printed which is the value
at 1024
Next we have address of a equal to &a
So it will print the address of variable a which
is 1024
Next we have ptr points to address equal to ptr
So ptr is a pointer but it's actually variable also. Right?
So what will you get if you write the name
of variable? you will get the value stored in it. Right?
So here we have ptr which will return the value
stored in it which is address 1024. so it will
be printed. Next we have address of ptr
equal to &ptr
So it will print address of ptr which is
1000. So let us quickly summarise all these points
If you write the variable name be it a normal variable
or a pointer, it will return the value stored in
it
And if you write &variable name It will
return the address of that variable
And finally if you write * followed by an address
it will return the value stored at that address
So that's all and thank you for watching this video